doc: add rules for quoting (#986)
scop/bash-completion: doc/styleguide.md

See [API and naming](api-and-naming.md).

## Quoting of words containing shell expansions such as `$var`, `$(cmd)`, and `$((expr))`

To avoid unexpected word splitting and pathname expansions, an argument of
commands needs to be properly quoted when it contains shell expansions.

When one intentionally wants word splitting and pathname expansions, one should
consider using the utility functions provided by bash-completion.  To safely
split a string without being affected by word splitting and pathname
expansions, use the shell function `_comp_split`.  To safely obtain filenames
by pathname expansions without being affected by `failglob`, etc., use the
shell function `_comp_expand_glob`.  Note that `_comp_expand_glob` should be
always used for the pathname patterns even if the pattern does not contain
shell expansions.

In the following contexts, the quoting to suppress word splitting and pathname
expansions are not needed.

- The right-hand sides of variable assignments ... `v=$var`
- The arguments of conditional commands ... `[[ $var ]]`
- The argument specified to `case` statement ... `case $var in foo) ;; esac`

However, there are exceptions where the quoting is still needed.

> - When the word contains shell special characters ``/[ \t\n;|&()<>\\$`'"#!~{]/``,

Reviewer: What is "the word" here, could we rephrase/clarify this some, perhaps through an example?

Author: Hmm. The "word" here means the range of characters in the shell code that the user wants to treat as a single shell WORD. WORD is defined in [POSIX XCU 2.3 Token Recognition](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/V3_chap02.html#tag_18_03) and in [XCU 2.10.2 Shell Grammar Rules](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/). So, if the text range contains unquoted shell special characters, that is actually no longer a shell word. In that sense, the word cannot contain these characters without quoting.

Reviewer: Sorry, I was probably unclear, let me try to elaborate. The bullet point examples above contain uses of `$var` (which are not "word"s AFAIU), but this bullet talks about exceptions, and I read them being exceptions to the above points. But because the above points do not contain any "word" uses -> confusion ensues exactly to which are these exceptions for.

So reading this I'm left wondering if quoting is necessary e.g. (using the slash as an example) for literal `foo/bar` so we'd need to do `v="foo/bar"`, or uses of variables whose values might contain the slash (in which case we might not know, and it would arguably to be better to just always quote).

Author: Thank you for your clarification! I still planned to update the corresponding part, but I was thinking about how I should fix it. Now I understand the problems.

In my mind, I was talking about "the words that *contain* shell expansions" in the entire section as in the section title, and `$var` was the simplest case of such a word. However, as you pointed out, the examples seem to just talk about the shell expansions so are confusing. Then, I guess adding examples would be fine to avoid the confusion.

> So reading this I'm left wondering if quoting is necessary e.g. (using the slash as an example) for literal `foo/bar` so we'd need to do `v="foo/bar"`,

Sorry for confusing you, but the slash is not a part of the set of special characters. The enclosing `[` and `]` are also not a part of the special characters. I have a habit of indicating a regular expression by `/.../`. (Actually, I initially wrote `` \t\n;|&()<>\\$`'"#!~{`` without `/[` and `]/`, but the pre-commit hook (probably PyMarkdown) has complained that a whitespace character cannot be included at the beginning of the code span.) I'll try to fix it.

Author: ca0fde09

- I changed the section title to `Quoting of words` to extend the target to the general words.
- I made it explicit that we avoid unnecessary quoting.
- I explained the exception of shell special characters in more detail.
- I added the case of an empty word as an exception.
- I also added our preferences in the type of quoting as suggested in [#932 (comment)](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion/issues/932#issuecomment-1556879298).

Reviewer: Looks great to me :+1:

  these characters need to be quoted
- `$*` and `${array[*]}` need to be always quoted because they can be affected
  by the word splitting in bash <= 4.2 even in the above contexts.
- In the following contexts, double-quoting of shell expansions is needed
  unless the result of expansions is intentionally treated as glob patterns or
  regular expressions.
  - The right-hand sides of `==`, `!=`, and `=~` in the conditional commands
    ... `[[ word == "$var" ]]`

>   - The case patterns ... `case word in $var) ;; esac`

Reviewer: For consistency with the preceding example?
```suggestion
  - The case patterns ... `case word in "$var") ;; esac`
```

Note: Here strings `cat <<<$var` are also supposed to be safe against word
splitting and pathname expansions without quoting, but bash <= 4.3 has a bug

> [1], so they need to be quoted as far as we support bash 4.3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1], so they need to be quoted for as long as we support bash 4.3.
```
